# Human Habitability on Mars
This repository contains a research monograph on the potential habitability of the planet Mars, based on information collected by space missions to date.

## Perseverance Rover MEDA Data Fetcher
This script is designed to retrieve and list datasets generated by MEDA (Mars Environmental Dynamics Analyzer), the weather station onboard the Perseverance rover, from various data directories hosted by the PDS (Planetary Data System). The script allows users to:

- Select a specific type of data (e.g., Raw Data, Partially Processed Data, Calibrated Data, or Derived Data) to index and analyze.
- Filter the indexed data files based on multiple sensor types, such as wind, temperature, radiation, and more.
- Further refine the filtering by specifying individual or ranges of sol numbers (Martian days) to narrow down the selection.
- Download filtered files into organized directories for further analysis, with options to manage existing files and track download progress.

The objective is to provide an efficient tool for accessing and managing large datasets from Mars, facilitating scientific analysis and data exploration related to the Martian environment and weather patterns.

### Usage

1. **Clone the Repository**: 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/la9una/mars_habitability.git
```

2. **Make the Script Executable**:

 ```bash
 cd mars_habitability && chmod +x perseverance_meda_data_fetcher.sh
 ```

3. **Run the Script**:

```bash
./perseverance_meda_data_fetcher.sh
```

4. **Follow the Prompts**:

- **Select Data Type**: You will be prompted to choose from available data types:
    - ESD (Raw Data)
    - PAR (Partially Processed Data)
    - CAL (Calibrated Data)
    - DER (Derived Data)

- **Select Sensors**: Choose one or more sensors from the list (e.g., WS for Wind Sensor, ATS for Air Temperature Sensor, etc.).
- **Enter Sol Numbers/Ranges**: Specify individual sol numbers or ranges (e.g., 2 10-15 20-22) to filter the files further.
- **Download**: Decide whether to download the filtered files. You will also have the option to overwrite existing files or skip them.

5. **Output**:

The script will create a directory named according to the selected data type (e.g., MEDA_DER_DATA) and save the downloaded files there.
If any files match the criteria, they will be listed in `filtered_file_list.txt`.

## References

- Mars Environmental Dynamics Analyzer (MEDA). (n.d.). Perseverance Rover Data. Retrieved from https://atmos.nmsu.edu/data_and_services/atmospheres_data/PERSEVERANCE/meda.html
- Perseverance (Mars 2020) Analyst's Notebook. (n.d.). Mission Timeline. Retrieved from [https://an.rsl.wustl.edu/m20/AN/missTimes.aspx](https://an.rsl.wustl.edu/)

© 2024 Raúl Jesús López - This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. [Link to the license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
